There are many things in life that prepare a person for greater things.
For example, elementary school prepares a student for high school.
Running shorter races prepares a person to run a marathon.
Working as an apprentice prepares a worker to serve as a professional.
Well, in this talk, we're going to discuss how that disciple-making now prepares us
for the greater disciple-making work in the New World.
But first, let's briefly discuss how making disciples right now brings a lot of joy.
Please turn to Psalm 105. Now, this is the theme scripture for today's program.
Psalm 105 verse 3, boast about His holy name, let the hearts of those seeking Jehovah rejoice.
Notice, we're encouraged to boast about Jehovah's holy name.
How do we do this? Well, by preaching, teaching, helping others come to know Jehovah and His purposes.
And what is the result of this? Well, honest, hearted ones respond favorably and they began
to seek Jehovah. And how are they affected? Well, as a second part of that verse read,
their hearts overflow with rejoicing. Now, taking it a little further, how are we affected
when we're able to help someone start seeking Jehovah and to get on that road to everlasting life?
Well, it makes our hearts rejoice in that true. And in fact, there are very few things in life
that can bring more joy than helping someone start seeking Jehovah and get on that narrow road to life.
I mean, think about it to explain Bible truth to them. See, their face light up as little light
bubs start going off in their mind as they're learning these truths to see them start making changes
in their life to please Jehovah, to see them become an unbaptized publisher, come up from that
baptismal pool, maybe later get into the pioneer work. There's nothing this world can offer.
No accomplishment, no paycheck that can equal the joy of helping someone start seeking Jehovah.
Aproperately throughout this second day of our program, we have been taught many ways we can
improve in our disciple making skills because it is vital that we do so because eternal lives
hang in the balance. And what is the value of one eternal life? Well, one brother said if all
of Jehovah's witnesses pioneered until the end came and one person learned the truth, it would be
worth it. That's the value of one life. In fact, with all the money, the gold, the silver, the diamonds
combined, you could not buy one eternal life. It's priceless. But not one, almost 304,000 were helped
to the point of baptism during the last service year as a result of Jehovah blessing the disciple
making skills of his people. But as we mentioned before, learning disciple making skills now
prepares us for the even greater disciple making work of the new world. In fact, let's talk about how
vast this work will be, this educational work in the new world. If we think about it, millions have been
made disciples during these last years of the last days. But in the new world, apparently, billions
of disciples will need to be made. How much greater is a billion than a million? One thousand times
greater. So we're talking about thousands of times more disciples needing to be made than now. And
likely, we will carry on this work of disciple making in the new world for centuries, not just decades
as the case in the last days. And that is really something to think about. In fact, it makes us think
of what Jesus said to his disciples at John 1412. He told them, you will do works greater than I am
doing. So really, we could say that that disciple making work of the new world will be greater.
More people will be witness to and made disciples a larger area, a longer period of time. And
undoubtedly, disciple making in the new world will be even more joyful than disciple making now.
Now we said before it's indescribable joy to make a disciple now. But why will it be even more
enjoyable? Well, think about the environment. Satan and devil will be gone. That'll be like a
hundred pound block off all our shoulders. The spirit of the world will no longer exist. That
spirit of the world exhale by Satan, because Satan will be locked in the abyss, and you could say
it will be airtight. He will not be able to exhale the spirit of the world from there. One
government will rule the entire earth. All human governments will be gone. And think of this, never
again, never ever will the unrighteous outnumber the righteous. They will always be the minority. So
this wonderful environment will undoubtedly make disciple making even more exhilarating in the
new world. But now let's think for a moment about how voluminous the work itself will be. John 528
and 29 says that all those in the memorial tombs will hear Jesus voice and come out all in the
tombs who will be included among these ones that will come out of the memorial tombs will open
up to Acts chapter 24. And let's notice who will be included. Acts 24 verse number 15.
And I have hoped toward God, which hope these men also look forward to, that there is going to be
a resurrection of both the righteous and the unrighteous. So you notice it's guaranteed it is
going to happen. Not maybe good possibility. It's going to happen. And it's going to include
the righteous and the unrighteous. But now here's a question. Why will the righteous who are
resurrected need further education? Well, even though they're already servants of God,
they will need to learn details concerning fulfill prophecies, the outworking of God's purposes,
things that have happened since they died. They'll need to be brought up to speed, so to speak.
And how much they'll need to be taught will depend largely upon how long ago they died.
They will also need help to continue in their righteous course and to obey the things written
in the scrolls. Revelation 20 verse 12 talks about these new scrolls. It says, I saw the dead,
the great and the small, standing before the throne, and scrolls were opened. The dead were judged
out of those things written in the scrolls according to their deeds. And the watchtower said this about
those new scrolls. It said, these scrolls will most likely set forth Jehovah's requirements
for mankind at that time. By studying these, all people, including resurrected ones,
will be able to know God's will for them. These scrolls will surely give us further insight
into Jehovah's mind. That's exciting indeed to ponder, isn't it? Included among the righteous,
through resurrected, will be fateful ones who will be brought back to serve as princes.
Psalm 45-16 says that Jesus will appoint princes in all the earth. And the watchtower pointed out
that one example would be Daniel. Do you remember what Jehovah promised him shortly before he died? He
said, you will rest, but you will stand up for your lot at the end of the days. Well, he's rested
in the grave for some 2,500 years, but he'll stand up in the resurrection, and he'll take his position
as one of these princes as pointed out in the watchtower. Now, of course, Daniel and others like him
will need to be brought up to speed, updated, trained for their assignments.
Also, many of the princes will be selected from the fateful elders who are taking the lead today
as pointed out by the watchtower, but of course, Jesus, the Messianic King, will make the appointments.
So what do we know? They will be good appointments. They will be princes who will truly love the people
and faithfully carry out all the directions of the heavenly government.
Also included among the righteous to be resurrected will be many of our loved ones
who may have thought they would live to see the end of this system, but they died in the last days.
But now what a joy it will be for you brothers and sisters to welcome these ones back
and teach them about all the things that have happened since they died. They'll need to be brought
up to date, so they can help in this great disciple-making work, an example I think of my mother.
She was baptized in 1938. She died in 2012, a little over 8 years ago. She really wanted to see
the end of this system, and she was of that judge, brother for generation, really wanted to see
that prostitute destroyed, but cancer prevented that from happening. And I remember shortly before
she died, I said, Mom, I know you wanted to go into the New World, the overland passage away,
never died all, but you're going to have to take the underground tunnel. But the main thing is to
get there, and you're going to very shortly close your eyes, and the next thing you're going to see,
you're going to open your eyes in that New World. But when she comes back, just think of the things
that have happened in the eight years she's been gone. She'll have to be brought up to speed,
won't you? This is JW Broadcasting from the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses. She didn't
even know about the broadcast. She'll have to be brought up to speed, but she'll be so happy
to learn about this and other developments. But here's a question, where will the billions of
new disciples come from? Even though the resurrected righteous ones will need to be educated,
they're already disciples, aren't they? So where will the new disciples come from? Well,
ones born after Armageddon will need to be made disciples. Also, there'll be a vast multitude
of unrighteous ones who will return from the grave. Now, they'll come from all different backgrounds,
and they'll come back and they'll need to be taught. They'll need help to accept Christ's ransom,
to obey the things that are written in the New Scrolls, because most of them will know nothing.
Now, maybe some studied a while, but death prevented them from continuing, but most will know nothing
completely unaware about the good news. And as we said, they'll come from all time periods,
locations, cultures, some may have been rulers, maybe slaves, maybe criminals, maybe self-righteous
persons, maybe ones died in combat, died in childbirth, died of disease, perhaps the
coronavirus, died by starvation, natural disaster, and it seems that the last thought on their
mind when they died will be the first thought when they come back. I was thinking about the men who
threw the three Hebrews into the fiery furnace, and they died because of the heat. They'll come back
with a vivid memory of that situation, and yet they'll have to be taught what happened
after they died, how those three Hebrews came out unharmed, see. Just imagine all these backgrounds
of ones coming back. Imagine situations it could develop. Here's just an example. Imagine a former
ruler had hundreds, maybe thousands of slaves, who cater to his every desire. Now, he comes back
in a resurrection, and his overseer is one of his former slaves. And he tells him, gives him direction,
loving direction, but direction, to plant a tree in a certain location. Now, will he humble himself?
Interesting, interesting possibilities. Think of the atheists who will be resurrected.
Here they ate Jehovah's food, they drank his water, they breathed his air, they walked on his ground,
never gave him any credit, never acknowledged him at all. Makes us think of the illustration of
the pig under the apple tree. He gobbles up the apples off the ground, but he never looks up to see
where they came from. Now, we may not use that illustration with these atheists that come back,
but they will have to be helped to see what a selfish life they lived. And now they're going to
have to praise Jehovah, acknowledge, give him honor, glory, and worship. Will they do so? Well,
it'll be up to them, but you brothers and sisters will help such ones. In fact, let's just ponder
some of these ones will come back by means of some artwork. Now, look at the following artwork,
please. And it's going to show you people from different time periods, different backgrounds
being taught after they're resurrected. And as the artwork displays, try to imagine yourself
teaching ones of these various backgrounds. And brothers and sisters, that artwork
is just a little tiny sampling of ones from various time periods and backgrounds
who will return to the land of the living. But as we mentioned, Jehovah will empower Jesus
to resurrect all of these ones, bringing them back from the memorial tombs. They will hear his
voice and they will come out. And we know it'll be a controlled orderly way. See, Jehovah is a
God not of disorder, but a peace. 1 Corinthians 14, 33. He also wants things to take place
decently and by arrangement. 1 Corinthians 14, 40. So if they all came back at once,
that would be a chaotic population explosion, wouldn't it? They couldn't even be taught properly.
They couldn't be cared for. We know it will be progressive during the thousand years. And
Oarshar said this, faithful Christians who died shortly before the end of Satan's system
will likely be among the first ones raised. We can also expect an early resurrection
for the fateful men of old who will serve as princes. We touched on that previously.
Yes, resurrected ones will have much to learn. And you dear brothers and sisters will have the
privilege to help them see. They'll need to learn about Jehovah, his qualities. All the wonderful
things he's done. Many will need to reject false religious ideas that they believed in Satan's
world. Here's just an example. Imagine one who really believed that all good people go to heaven.
But now he's resurrected and he's brought back here to the earth. Obviously he'll know that
teaching was wrong. But what about other false teachings that he believed? Will he change his
mind and heart? Will he accept these truths? It'll be up to him. But you, brothers and sisters,
will help such ones. There will be many others who will come back who will have to abandon their
former way of life. I was thinking as an example, a homosexual. Now this former homosexual comes
back into resurrection and he really thought and he was taught and he came to believe that God
accepted him with that lifestyle. But now he's going to learn about Jehovah's moral standards
and he's going to learn that Jehovah will not lower his standard to accommodate us.
We have to come up to Jehovah's standard. Will he change? Will he adjust? It'll be up to him.
But you, brothers and sisters, will help such ones to enjoy life eternal.
All must learn to walk into Jehovah's righteous ways and willingly choose to do so.
But now what if someone refuses to make the necessary changes? Well, the Watchtower commented on that.
It said, after being given ample time, maybe even a hundred years to seek God, some will show that
they refuse to practice righteousness. Justly, they will lose life in the New World.
As we can see from Isaiah 65, verse 12, which says, and the center will be cursed,
even though he is a hundred years of age. But we expect this will be the minority,
that the majority will be delighted to make the adjustments so they can live in that wonderful
New World. But I think about what one brother told me concerning his Bible student,
his Bible student kept saying, well, you know, how do I know I'm going to like life in the New World?
How do I know I'm not going to be bored? Well, finally, the brother told him, he said, well,
one thing about it, if you don't like being there, you don't have to stay.
Now, it's kind of humorous, but a lot of truth. A person has to willingly want to be there,
make the necessary changes, but we believe the vast majority will be delighted to do so.
And what a privilege it will be to teach ones in that New World a time when Isaiah 119 will be true,
which says, the earth will certainly be filled with a knowledge of Jehovah
as though waters are covering the sea. I mean, think about it, this earth, 71% of its surface
is covered with water. And if you smooth all the land out,
sea water would cover the planet earth one and two-thirds miles deep. This is a watery planet,
isn't? Well, that illustration there in Isaiah just shows how prolific, how widespread,
how filled the earth will be with a knowledge of Jehovah at that time. And that wonderful knowledge
will enable faithful humans to grow to perfection and to sufficiently be equipped,
to face and pass the final test at the end of the thousand years. And the good things that
you, dear brothers and sisters, have learned today, this second day of our program,
what you've learned today about helping your Bible students now will help you in the New World.
As you learn, you learned how to teach your Bible students to feed themselves spiritually,
to attend the meetings, to avoid bad associations, to overcome unclean habits,
to develop a personal relationship with Jehovah. See, those very same things you will need to
teach these new ones that come back in the resurrection. So at this time, let's review
some of the good things that we have learned today about disciple making.
And let's meditate on how these skills will help in the New World. In fact, look at this video,
please, a brief video that gives us some highlights from our first symposium which was entitled
improve your skills. Since there's no death or pain in heaven, where would this promise to play?
The earth. Would you like to learn how to be part of that future?
If these are God's promises, wouldn't it make sense to go to His Word to find out how to enjoy them?
Maybe we can think of it this way. When parents with a severe genetic defect have children,
what happens? I get it. No study is perfect. She's making some effort. Focus on that. If anyone's
confused as a miscontagious, it's yours. I can help if you want. The real question is, do you trust
Him? I want to. I really do. As we saw in that video, we want to improve our skills. And in
the symposium, we saw six areas in which we can improve our skills. And each one of the six
videos in that symposium discuss one of those skills. In review, Nita in the first video,
the Bible study conductor, use questions to help the interested person see the practical value
of the Bible. In the second video, next time they met, Nita unleashed the power of God's Word
by showing her student scriptures that highlight our spiritual need. In the third video, Nita
illustrated a damaged sin by likening it to inherited illness. In the fourth video,
when our Bible students seem to be losing interest, Nita learned the importance of enthusiasm
to motivate. In the fifth video, Nita showed empathy for her student's stressful circumstances
and provided practical help. And then in the last, the sixth video, Nita's conviction
and scriptural reasoning helped to reach her student's heart so that she reconsidered her
situation and her views on morals. Can you just imagine how those six skills you'll use in the
New World? Think about it. You'll use questions, won't you? You'll use questions to help resurrected
ones see the practical value of the Bible and the new scrolls. And by the way, the Bible will be
used in the New World. You will unleash the power of God's Word and the power of the scrolls
by showing these new ones scriptures. You will use good illustrations to help them reason.
You will use enthusiasm to motivate. You will show empathy, especially for ones who have scars
as a result of a horrible life in Satan's old world. You will also use conviction and scriptural
reasoning to reach their heart. But now let's move to our second symposium. And it was
entitled, Accept Jehovah's Help. And we discussed three aids Jehovah gives us. Let's look at this
brief video that will remind us of that second symposium. Her real issue was getting to know someone
she can't see. Maybe that's the best place to begin. I did some research and I think you're really
like what I found. Come on, come sit down. I've tried everything to get J2 a meeting. Have you tried
bring other people on the study? You were in a band. I love that song. I actually have that vinyl.
Look, I know you're busy. No clue, do you? I've got to go. So I asked him to help J2,
and left it with him. Well, as reminded in that video, Jehovah provides research tools.
He provides the brotherhood. And he provides help by means of prayer. And you'll use those things
in the new world, obviously. See, just like Anita, she used research tools to prepare to discuss
evolution with her student. When she realized she had limited understanding of the student's background,
she sought help from the brotherhood. She brought along a publisher who had a similar background
to her student. And that third video, when her student resisted, Anita's encouragement to prepare
for her Bible study, Anita prayed to Jehovah to help her and to motivate the student.
And we know Jehovah hears prayers, but imagine you'll use research tools, you use the brotherhood,
you'll use prayer to make disciples in the new world. But now let's go to that third symposium,
help your Bible students to, and we talked about five things we wanted to help them to do.
Let's look at this video, which will remind us of that third symposium.
Which do you remember more from our studies? The answers? Or the things that touch your heart?
It's asking how Jehovah feels about something, and then what that means for me.
My meeting part tonight covers that point. Why don't you come?
I'm having some people over this weekend. It wasn't the club, but it was still fun, eating it
though impossible. Be made new in your dominant mental attitude. I remembered one of the Psalms,
I will walk in your truth and you'll find my heart to fear your name.
Well as reminded, there are five things we want to help our students to accomplish.
That first video in this symposium, Anita helped her student learn to feed herself spiritually.
By demonstrating how she herself prepared for their study.
The second video, Anita returned to the subject of meeting attendance by pointing out that the next
meeting would consider a question she had raised previously. The third video,
Anita helped her student to seek good association by arranging for her to attend a Christian gathering.
Then the fourth video, when it became clear that the student was not ready to be a publisher because
of an unclean practice, Anita gently helped her to appreciate what it means to become and remain
clean in Jehovah's eyes. And then the last video that fifth one most important,
Anita helped her student to develop strong love for Jehovah that would be so strong
she would be able to resist pressure from the world.
Well, you can imagine you'll use the very same skills. You'll try to help your students there
to accomplish the same five things we discussed. You'll help them to learn to feed themselves
spiritually. You'll help them to attend meetings. You'll help them to see the need to seek out
good association to avoid unclean practices and most importantly to develop deep love for Jehovah.
Yes, it's obvious that our skills, our experience, our qualities learn now in the disciple making
work will be very valuable in the new world. You'll be able to put these skills to good use,
then, say. So let's all strive to improve as teachers. And that's what Titus 1.9 says,
that we should hold firmly to the faithful word as respects our art of teaching. And we want to be
artists, the art of teaching. You may have heard the difference between a laborer, a craftsman,
and an artist. A laborer uses his back. A craftsman has to add his mind, but an artist adds his heart.
We don't want to be just laborers, craftsmen, but artists really putting our heart into the disciple
making work. And it does take effort. Let's look at one last scripture here, 1 Timothy chapter 4.
The effort involved, but it's worth the effort. 1 Timothy 4 verse 15, ponder over these things.
Be absorbed in them so that your advancement may be plainly seen by all people.
Pay constant attention to yourself and your teaching. Persevere in these things. For by doing this,
you will save both yourself and those who listen to you. That's true now. It will be true in the
new world. And Jehovah is providing what we need. He's giving us excellent training. He provides
excellent tools. We want to make good use of both of these provisions, but we do want to give
this caution. Don't be overwhelmed, please. We've discussed a lot of skills, a lot of suggestions,
but don't be overwhelmed. Jehovah's going to help you. He will bless your efforts to do your best.
And we encourage you to just pick out one or two skills at first and work on those. And then you
can move on to other things. In conclusion, think about this, there are many secular skills practiced
today that will not even exist in the new world. Doctors, no doctors, nurses, optometrist,
undertakers, locksmiths, lawyers. Such professions will not even exist. But your skills,
as a disciple maker, will be in high demand. You will be able to use these skills to the full.
And you will definitely rejoice greatly as you share in this voluminous, this enormous new world
educational campaign soon to come.